---
title: Day 4 - Evidence and truth // On copyright and privacy
layout: post
---

Today’s first session centred on silences and dilemmas within archival spaces. Panelists laid out the marginalised histories of Mental Health and anti-dam protests, emphasising on the role of ideology in shaping the scope and presentation of historical evidence. Questions from the audience then greatly added to the session, ranging from discussions on Manto, madness and partition to nation building and displacement

## Evidence and Truth

{% youtube jtubwQA3peI %}

### Chat text
01:28:04	Aparna Vaidik:	Please do type in your questions in the chat. We will collate them

01:35:17	Aparna Vaidik:	Seems like Prof. Balaram is a rather thorough researcher making historians redundant!

01:39:40	Aparna Vaidik:	David Tyrell Records: http://blog.wellcomelibrary.org/2013/09/fighting-the-cold-war-david-tyrrell-and-the-common-cold/#_ga=2.181260452.26701150.1591889385-1716900898.1591889385

01:42:09	Aparna Vaidik:	Northern Arizona Archives Website: https://nau.edu/special-collections/

01:42:31	Aswin S:	I think some (or much?) of the Wellcome Library is there in archive.org. Not sure if the relevant parts are available there though..

01:43:07	yamaha:	@Kelly and Sam : How does an academic institutional archive that's just starting out, go about setting up a digitization workflow?

01:43:14	yamaha:	What kind of housekeeping do we need to take care of before we jump into scanning and cataloging?

01:46:20	Aparna Vaidik:	Could we talk a little bit about the significance of forgotten histories especially in relation to scientific research

01:47:29	Deepika S:	As archivists, how can we do more to ensure that we have better, more thorough information about women? How can we figure this out at an institutional level?

01:49:12	Tassadaque Hussain:	  Is your Archives also embarking on Microfilming of records, since Microfilms are better for long term archival preservation.

01:50:52	Hari Sridhar:	This discussion is based on the following articles: 

https://science.thewire.in/the-sciences/finding-dorothy-hamre-the-first-person-to-isolate-a-strain-of-a-coronavirus/https://library.nau.edu/speccoll/blog/2020/05/finding-a-forgotten-virologist-in-the-archives/ 

https://frontline.thehindu.com/dispatches/article31584134.ece

01:52:05	Anup Sharma:	It says that "the page cannot be found"



01:52:52	aditi:	How about assigning orchid id to researchers of the past?

01:56:04	yamaha:	Finding Dorothy Hamre, the First Person to Isolate a Strain of a Coronavirus: https:/library.nau.edu/speccoll/blog/2020/05/finding-a-forgotten-virologist-in-the-archives/



Finding a forgotten virologist in the archives:

https://library.nau.edu/speccoll/blog/2020/05/finding-a-forgotten-virologist-in-the-archives/



Putting a face to Dorothy Hamre, the experimental scientist who discovered the coronavirus:

https://frontline.thehindu.com/dispatches/article31584134.ece



01:57:11	Hari Sridhar:	Question for Professor Balaram: I was struck by this quote in your article on Dorothy Hamre: "Time and history blot out small merit and fatten big glory." It is clear why this is a problem in relation to historical accuracy and in terms of providing fair credit for ideas. How do you think it affects the contemporary practice of science?

01:57:14	Tassadaque Hussain:	 Are your digital collections downloadable?

02:00:04	Aparna Vaidik:	Another very interesting article on history of bacteriology: https://mmbr.asm.org/content/mmbr/40/4/793.full.pdf

02:09:26	Milli Network:	qUESTION FROM YOUTUBE: As the coronavirus is a current pandemic but it is some what linked to Dorothy Hamre's work in the past. So how are you trying to preserve this current link in terms of Archiving all the current data? - Patricia (from YouTube)

question from youtube!



02:10:19	aditi:	Thank fully scientists are now living out so much of their lives online now - twitter, Instagram etc. Simplifies things for researchers of tomorrow?

02:13:28	sangeeta d:	Resources shared from today's session. 

## Copyright and Privacy

{% youtube iFpXc-CVvp0 %}

### Chat text
To be added


## Forgotten Histories

{% youtube MEhCslAGM5I %}

### Chat text

20:02:55	 From  Milli Network   to   Hari Sridhar(Privately) : im recording on my comp ..can you do one also?

20:03:08	 From  Hari Sridhar   to   Milli Network(Privately) : Yes

20:03:30	 From  Milli Network   to   Hari Sridhar(Privately) : np///am asking sangeeta

20:04:12	 From  Milli Network   to   Hari Sridhar(Privately) : asked Sangeeta to record on cloud.. you and I are doing it on our comps

20:04:31	 From  Hari Sridhar   to   Milli Network(Privately) : Ok

20:14:07	 From  Hari Sridhar   to   Venkat Srinivasan(Privately) : At some point should we share links of the blogpost and Balaram's articles with the audience?

20:27:34	 From  Hari Sridhar   to   Milli Network(Privately) : Has the participant limit been changed to 60? The number seems to be fluctuating around that, i.e. people going in and out, but it doesn't go above 61.

20:28:58	 From  Milli Network   to   Hari Sridhar(Privately) : not that I know of

20:29:01	 From  Milli Network   to   Hari Sridhar(Privately) : hmmm

20:30:06	 From  Hari Sridhar   to   Milli Network(Privately) : should check after the session.

20:31:46	 From  Milli Network   to   Hari Sridhar(Privately) : am looking in settings but don't see such a thing

20:32:16	 From  Hari Sridhar   to   Milli Network(Privately) : Ok, as we are talking it has gone up to 62:) so maybe it is okay. 

20:32:24	 From  Milli Network   to   Hari Sridhar(Privately) : cool

20:45:53	 From  Aparna Vaidik : Please do type in your questions in the chat. We will collate them

20:53:06	 From  Aparna Vaidik : Seems like Prof. Balaram is a rather thorough researcher making historians redundant!

20:57:29	 From  Aparna Vaidik : David Tyrell Records: http://blog.wellcomelibrary.org/2013/09/fighting-the-cold-war-david-tyrrell-and-the-common-cold/#_ga=2.181260452.26701150.1591889385-1716900898.1591889385

20:59:58	 From  Aparna Vaidik : Northern Arizona Archives Website: https://nau.edu/special-collections/

21:00:20	 From  Aswin S : I think some (or much?) of the Wellcome Library is there in archive.org. Not sure if the relevant parts are available there though..

21:00:55	 From  yamaha : @Kelly and Sam : How does an academic institutional archive that's just starting out, go about setting up a digitization workflow?

21:01:03	 From  yamaha : What kind of housekeeping do we need to take care of before we jump into scanning and cataloging?

21:03:07	 From  Venkat Srinivasan   to   Hari Sridhar(Privately) : Yes, do share? Sorry, just saw this.

21:04:09	 From  Aparna Vaidik : Could we talk a little bit about the significance of forgotten histories especially in relation to scientific research

21:05:18	 From  Deepika S : As archivists, how can we do more to ensure that we have better, more thorough information about women? How can we figure this out at an institutional level?

21:07:01	 From  Tassadaque Hussain :   Is your Archives also embarking on Microfilming of records, since Microfilms are better for long term archival preservation.

21:08:40	 From  Hari Sridhar : This discussion is based on the following articles: 

https://science.thewire.in/the-sciences/finding-dorothy-hamre-the-first-person-to-isolate-a-strain-of-a-coronavirus/https://library.nau.edu/speccoll/blog/2020/05/finding-a-forgotten-virologist-in-the-archives/ 

https://frontline.thehindu.com/dispatches/article31584134.ece

21:09:53	 From  Anup Sharma : It says that "the page cannot be found"



21:10:41	 From  aditi : How about assigning orchid id to researchers of the past?

21:13:53	 From  yamaha : Finding Dorothy Hamre, the First Person to Isolate a Strain of a Coronavirus: https:/library.nau.edu/speccoll/blog/2020/05/finding-a-forgotten-virologist-in-the-archives/



Finding a forgotten virologist in the archives:

https://library.nau.edu/speccoll/blog/2020/05/finding-a-forgotten-virologist-in-the-archives/



Putting a face to Dorothy Hamre, the experimental scientist who discovered the coronavirus:

https://frontline.thehindu.com/dispatches/article31584134.ece



21:15:00	 From  Hari Sridhar : Question for Professor Balaram: I was struck by this quote in your article on Dorothy Hamre: "Time and history blot out small merit and fatten big glory." It is clear why this is a problem in relation to historical accuracy and in terms of providing fair credit for ideas. How do you think it affects the contemporary practice of science?

21:15:03	 From  Tassadaque Hussain :  Are your digital collections downloadable?

21:17:53	 From  Aparna Vaidik : Another very interesting article on history of bacteriology: https://mmbr.asm.org/content/mmbr/40/4/793.full.pdf

21:24:51	 From  Venkat Srinivasan   to   Hari Sridhar(Privately) : probably wont get to this :( sorry

21:26:12	 From  Hari Sridhar   to   Venkat Srinivasan(Privately) : No problem.

21:27:15	 From  Milli Network : qUESTION FROM YOUTUBE: As the coronavirus is a current pandemic but it is some what linked to Dorothy Hamre's work in the past. So how are you trying to preserve this current link in terms of Archiving all the current data? - Patricia (from YouTube)

question from youtube!



21:28:09	 From  aditi : Thank fully scientists are now living out so much of their lives online now - twitter, Instagram etc. Simplifies things for researchers of tomorrow?

21:30:16	 From  Hari Sridhar   to   Venkat Srinivasan(Privately) : Thanks!

21:31:17	 From  sangeeta d : Resources shared from today's session. 
