---
title: Day 2 - Forms of the Archival Object // Revisiting oral histories
layout: post
---

Moving from archives to the role of museums, our panelists today focused on questions around archival objects, communicating relevance and improving accessibility. Methods of preservation were also discussed, as was the protocol followed by different archivists when processing new material. The second half of the session was an open discussion on oral histories that emphasised on ethical aspects of the practise. Subjectivities of different people, why and how our memories can be selective, as well as the manner in which oral history tends to run against dominant narratives was also central to the conversation.

{% youtube QxbLUTXfpUQ %}

## Chat text

10:36:19	 From  Rahi Soren : Great, thanks for the link.

10:37:57	 From  Venkat Srinivasan : For all technical queries, private message the ID named "Milli Network" - Hari.

10:38:59	 From  MAYA DODD   to   Milli Network(Privately)
 : unmute the

10:39:05	 From  MAYA DODD   to   Milli Network(Privately) : oopss..grat..thanks

10:41:18	 From  Milli Network   to   Shubhojeet(Privately) : I think there is a spelling mistake in the title of the webstream - Fors instead of Forms - can you please change it? Thanks.

10:41:31	 From  Shubhojeet   to   Milli Network(Privately) : on it

10:42:20	 From  Milli Network : For technical issues 
please message "Milli Network" privately.
10:46:14	 From  Milli Network   to   Indira(Privately) : Hi Indira, you have been unmuted. Can you check audio at your end? 

10:46:49	 From  MAYA DODD   to   Milli Network(Privately)
 : make me co-host..ill manage waiting room


10:48:08	 From  Milli Network : Please use 
#MilliConsortium and #IAW2020 on Twitter
if you are tweeting about this event. Thanks!
10:53:46	 From  Milli Network   to   sangeeta d(Privately) : keep track of this. i'll try calling Indira

10:54:19	 From  sangeeta d   to   Milli Network(Privately
) : Yes.


10:54:59	 From  Milli Network   to   Avehi(Privately) : 
Venkat is trying to contact Indira to figure this out.

10:56:09	 From  MAYA DODD   to   Milli Network(Privately) : wait to admit now

10:56:11	 From  Venkat Srinivasan   to   Milli Network(
Privately) : If room is at less than 100, don't let anyone enter from waiting room. Indira's trying to enter.

10:56:19	 From  MAYA DODD   to   Milli Network(Privately) : were trying to get Indira back in

10:56:28	 From  MAYA DODD   to   Milli Network(Privately) : shes fallen off

10:56:36	 From  Milli Network   to   Venkat Srinivasan(Privately) : Ok

10:56:36	 From  MAYA DODD   to   Milli Network(Privately) : I just told milli that too

10:56:44	 From  MAYA DODD   to   Milli Network(Privately) : were at 99 still so hope she can get in

10:56:49	 From  Milli Network   to   sangeeta d(Privately) : Don't let anyone in

10:57:21	 From  Milli Network   to   Avehi(Privately) : Indira is trying to get back into the meeting

10:57:22	 From  sangeeta d   to   Milli Network(Privately) : Okay

10:57:54	 From  Aparna Vaidik : https://www.facebook.com/archives.ncbs.14/videos/136047301410379/ For Live on Facebook

10:58:23	 From  Aparna Vaidik : The room is full, if you could please click on the link above to see it live on facebook

10:59:03	 From  Titas Bose   to   Milli Network(Privately) : Will there be a q/a session, and if so, how do you send my questions?

10:59:12	 From  Milli Network   to   Avehi(Privately) : Indira has joined back. 

10:59:24	 From  Aparna Vaidik : https://www.facebook.com/archives.ncbs.14/videos/136047301410379/ For Live on Facebook The room is full, if you could please click on the link above to see it live on facebook

10:59:47	 From  Milli Network   to   Titas Bose(Privately) : You can leave your questions in the chat box visible to everyone

11:00:49	 From  Titas Bose   to   Milli Network(Privately) : thank you

11:01:46	 From  Milli Network   to   Indira(Privately) : Hi Indira, can you check if you are muted at your end? 

11:01:47	 From  Bharat S   to   Milli Network(Privately) : It might be the use of earphones, perhaps you could ask Dr. Chowdhry to try unplugging them?

11:02:31	 From  Aparna Vaidik : https://www.facebook.com/archives.ncbs.14/videos/136047301410379/ For Live on Facebook Sorry but the room is full, if you could please click on the link above to see it live on facebook

11:02:40	 From  Milli Network   to   Indira(Privately) : Can you try talking without the headphones?

11:02:54	 From  Aparna Vaidik : https://www.facebook.com/archives.ncbs.14/videos/136047301410379/ For Live on Facebook Sorry but the room is full, if you could please click on the link above to see it live on facebook

11:02:55	 From  Milli Network   to   Bharat S(Privately) : Thanks, I'll ask her to check that.

11:03:51	 From  Aparna Vaidik   to   Milli Network(Privately) : Hi Hair, can you ask Jaya to switch on her video

11:03:59	 From  Aparna Vaidik   to   Milli Network(Privately) : She is not appearing in the Facebook feed

11:04:21	 From  Venkat Srinivasan   to   Milli Network(Privately) : Indira's trying to enter through phone now. If room is at less than 100, don't let anyone enter from waiting room. 



11:04:27	 From  MAYA DODD   to   Milli Network(Privately) : can we ask indra to check if her mic is working

11:04:33	 From  MAYA DODD   to   Milli Network(Privately) : shes not on mute

11:04:52	 From  Milli Network   to   Venkat Srinivasan(Privately) : Ok. Did she try without headphones? 

11:05:21	 From  sangeeta d : Okay

11:05:55	 From  MAYA DODD   to   Milli Network(Privately) : ok

11:05:56	 From  Aparna Vaidik : https://www.facebook.com/archives.ncbs.14/videos/136047301410379/ For Live on Facebook Sorry but the room is full, if you could please click on the link above to see it live on facebook 

From Me to Milli Network: (Privately) (11:06 AM)

11:06:38	 From  Aparna Vaidik : https://www.facebook.com/archives.ncbs.14/videos/136047301410379/ For Live on Facebook Sorry but the room is full, if you could please click on the link above to see it live on facebook

11:06:54	 From  Milli Network : Hi all, if you have questions for the speakers, you can leave them here in the chat box.

11:08:12	 From  Malini Krishnankutty : So for the National Archive when was the last 25 yearly review of materials done and when is the next one scheduled?

11:08:48	 From  Milli Network   to   MAYA DODD(Privately) : Can we now admit the people in the waiting room?

11:10:27	 From  Milli Network   to   Shubhojeet(Privately) : Will you handle the friend requests on Facebook?

11:10:42	 From  MAYA DODD   to   Milli Network(Privately) : we still have 3 open slots so should be good

11:11:01	 From  Shubhojeet   to   Milli Network(Privately) : Yes okay... I'll accept them all, or is any scrutiny required?

11:11:14	 From  sangeeta d   to   Milli Network(Privately) : Can you make me co-host? I am unable to mute people.

11:11:22	 From  Albert Varghese   to   Milli Network(Privately) : can you send me the facebook link

11:12:28	 From  Bharat S : What are the criteria for taking in private papers at the National Archives?

11:12:44	 From  Milli Network   to   Albert Varghese(Privately) : https://www.facebook.com/archives.ncbs.14/videos/136047301410379/



11:13:16	 From  somdatta karak : Can I have a template for the legal letter for getting oral history from someone? Thanks.

11:13:38	 From  Aparna Vaidik : https://www.facebook.com/archives.ncbs.14/videos/136047301410379/ For Live on Facebook Sorry but the room is full, if you could please click on the link above to see it live on facebook

11:14:00	 From  Aparna Vaidik   to   Milli Network(Privately) : Ask Kamini to start her video

11:14:10	 From  Aparna Vaidik   to   Milli Network(Privately) : Or just start her video

11:17:16	 From  Nitin Goyal : what is  meaning of digital archives. which archives in India  first started digitization.  kindly suggest any organization name which decide, check, declares  parameters and status of digital archives. ? thanks.

11:17:16	 From  Milli Network   to   Shubhojeet(Privately) : Thanks. Whatever scrutiny you normally use, I think.

11:17:33	 From  Titas Bose : To Kamini: How are the categories of archiving decided? One piece of object can be of course put in different categories, but how is it finally decided?

11:17:53	 From  Milli Network   to   Venkat Srinivasan(Privately) : Can Shubhojeet accept friend requests coming in on Facebook? 

11:18:30	 From  Dipika Makwana   to   Milli Network(Privately) : Hello Team, could you give us Recording permission to record sessions? Dipika Makwana From Archives @IIM Ahmedabad

11:18:47	 From  Aparna Vaidik   to   Milli Network(Privately) : Please switch on Jaya’s videp

11:18:47	 From  Divya Kannan : How does one negotiate individual research involving oral history and larger archival initiatives? As in, if I am conducting interviews as part of my individual research, at what stage, and in what form, can it become part of an institutionalized archive? What are the parameters ?

11:19:25	 From  Milli Network   to   Aparna Vaidik(Privately) : I've asked, but is there a way I can turn it on myself? 

11:19:46	 From  Aparna Vaidik   to   Milli Network(Privately) : Not sure :)

11:20:01	 From  Aparna Vaidik : https://www.facebook.com/archives.ncbs.14/videos/136047301410379/ For Live on Facebook Sorry but the room is full, if you could please click on the link above to see it live on facebook

11:20:08	 From  Albert Varghese   to   Milli Network(Privately) : is yesterdays session available anywhere ? fb/YT ?

11:20:11	 From  Venkat Srinivasan   to   Milli Network(Privately) : Can tackle this question of FB friend requests later. Don't need to resolve this week. 

11:20:43	 From  Milli Network   to   Venkat Srinivasan(Privately) : Ok. I guess this too later: Hello Team, could you give us Recording permission to record sessions? Dipika Makwana From Archives @IIM Ahmedabad



11:21:14	 From  Aparna Vaidik   to   Milli Network(Privately) : That did it

11:21:34	 From  Milli Network   to   Shubhojeet(Privately) : Venkat says we can deal with Facebook requests later in the week. Not priority. 

11:21:41	 From  Aparna Vaidik : https://www.facebook.com/archives.ncbs.14/videos/136047301410379/ For Live on Facebook Sorry but the room is full, if you could please click on the link above to see it live on facebook

11:21:54	 From  Aparna Vaidik : You don’t need a Facebook account for that

11:21:54	 From  Milli Network   to   Albert Varghese(Privately) : The recordings will be available on the Milli website soon.

11:21:58	 From  Shubhojeet   to   Milli Network(Privately) : Alright.

11:22:08	 From  Milli Network   to   Aparna Vaidik(Privately) : Thanks:) I'll do it next time. 

11:22:09	 From  Venkat Srinivasan   to   Milli Network(Privately) : Yes, just tell them to stand by and will get to this by tomorrow or something. Fighting fires, etc. Ask them to email: hello@milli.link

11:22:22	 From  Milli Network   to   Venkat Srinivasan(Privately) : k

11:22:25	 From  Venkat Srinivasan   to   Milli Network(Privately) : (tell them you see no issues with it, just will get to it soon).

11:22:31	 From  Aparna Vaidik : https://www.facebook.com/archives.ncbs.14/videos/136047301410379/ For Live on Facebook Sorry but the room is full, if you could please click on the link above to see it live on facebook You don’t need a Facebook account for that

11:22:34	 From  Milli Network   to   Venkat Srinivasan(Privately) : oK

11:23:05	 From  Aparna Vaidik : Hello, everyone, please type in your questions for the panelists. We are collecting them.

11:24:56	 From  Milli Network   to   Dipika Makwana(Privately) : Could you please email hello@milli.link

 about this? Should be okay, but we are still trying to figure out too many things at the same time, so we'll take this up in a day or two.

11:25:09	 From  Aparna Vaidik : https://www.facebook.com/archives.ncbs.14/videos/136047301410379/ For Live on Facebook Sorry but the room is full, if you could please click on the link above to see it live on facebook You don’t need a Facebook account for that

11:25:41	 From  Aparna Vaidik : https://www.facebook.com/archives.ncbs.14/videos/136047301410379/ For Live on Facebook Sorry but the room is full, if you could please click on the link above to see it live on facebook You don’t need a Facebook account for that

11:26:04	 From  dhanashree thorat : How are the panelists handling the collection of born digital material, and especially social media content (from tweets to tiktoks) in their archives? 

11:26:22	 From  Milli Network   to   Avehi(Privately) : Hi Avehi, almost 11:30, and there are 4-5 questions for the speakers. Just letting you know...take a call on when you want to wind up.

11:26:39	 From  Malini Krishnankutty : How are the collections of the various State archives in India done? Are municipalities bound to record and archive their papers etc.? 

11:29:45	 From  Milli Network   to   Nandini Oza(Privately) : Hi Nandini, happy to see you were able to join.

11:29:55	 From  Milli Network   to   Nandini Oza(Privately) : Hari here

11:30:05	 From  Titas Bose : For Jaya: Do these categorisations("Rain" or "Forest" other than "Environment') require change as the concept of research changes?

11:30:07	 From  Aparna Vaidik : How are the collections of the various State archives in India done? Are municipalities bound to record and archive their papers etc.?

11:30:12	 From  Nandini Oza   to   Milli Network(Privately) : yes, I am learning too. Thanks.

11:30:18	 From  Rajmani : I wants to mention mu observations on difference and commanality of Curators and access to records 

11:30:21	 From  Nirmala Menon : I. Think Jaya just touched on a very important point- How do we develop more efficient ways to develop Metadata in more comprehensive ways so this keyword trap can be covered?

11:31:04	 From  Anjali : When it comes to institution archives, how much does state censorship and control affect the rules and regulations of the archives? Are their rules for certain "sensitive" records becoming declassified and open to the public after a period of time?

11:31:14	 From  Venkat Srinivasan : @Nirmala: For more on the keyword trap and open annotation tools, join the June 13 session at 11:45a :)

11:31:43	 From  Nirmala Menon : @Venkat: Cool!

11:31:52	 From  Aparna Vaidik : https://www.facebook.com/archives.ncbs.14/videos/136047301410379/ For Live on Facebook Sorry but the room is full, if you could please click on the link above to see it live on facebook You don’t need a Facebook account for that

11:32:45	 From  Reju George : interesting webinar! very well presented. Informative and Interesting insights

11:33:32	 From  Aparna Vaidik : https://www.facebook.com/archives.ncbs.14/videos/136047301410379/ For Live on Facebook Sorry but the room is full, if you could please click on the link above to see it live on facebook You don’t need a Facebook account for that

11:33:45	 From  Wasif : Are the folk narratives and folk songs, especially with regards to pastoral communities, being archived given that these oral narratives might be the only entry point into those pasts, otherwise absent in traditional archival material.

11:33:48	 From  Bharat S : I think the shifts in the kind of public that consults a government archive with the coming of RTI is really significant. How is the National Archive adapting its protocols and practices to accommodate people with a non-research background?

11:34:36	 From  MAYA DODD : @ Wasif, do tune in : 12 Jun 10:30 // 11:45 - 13:30



Archiving Community Knowledge



Faisal Rehman (Keystone Foundation, Kotagiri)



Heather Goodall (University of Technology, Sydney)



Pallav Thudgar (Muskaan, Bhopal)



Ranjani Prasad (Keystone Foundation, Kotagiri)



Rita Bannerjee (Green Hub, Tezpur)



Surajit Sarkar (Centre for Community Knowledge, Ambedkar University Delhi)



TB Dinesh (Janastu)



Community histories discussion:



Led by Ranjani Prasad and Faisal Rehman (Keystone Foundation, Kotagiri)

11:35:15	 From  Wasif : Thanks, will do!

11:38:39	 From  PRASAD V : How students or researchers of your academic institution utilising the archives. Give some statistics of accessibility of your archives ?

11:38:46	 From  Avehi   to   Milli Network(Privately) : can i take one last question?

11:38:50	 From  Avehi   to   Milli Network(Privately) : and then wrap up

11:39:24	 From  Milli Network   to   Avehi(Privately) : Yes. We will meet again 15 minutes from whenever you stop. Nandini Oza has joined. 

11:42:35	 From  Aparna Vaidik   to   Milli Network(Privately) : The 15 minute break will also be recorded? Or we are going to stop the live feed and restart?

11:43:18	 From  Milli Network   to   Aparna Vaidik(Privately) : What do you think? Better to stop and start no? 

11:44:05	 From  Spivaking 24/7 : what about classified files in National archives ?many stories will remain untold .

11:44:20	 From  Spivaking 24/7 : are classified files catalogued too ?

11:44:51	 From  MAYA DODD   to   Milli Network(Privately) : i think we can skip the break especially since we are fb live

11:45:06	 From  MAYA DODD   to   Milli Network(Privately) : any participant can switch off their video if they wish to take a bio break types

11:45:24	 From  MAYA DODD   to   Milli Network(Privately) : nice flow now so instead if disrupting this vibe lets keep in

11:45:49	 From  Spivaking 24/7 : that’s a fantastic idea

11:46:13	 From  Milli Network   to   Avehi(Privately) : Maybe take just  a 2 minute break



11:46:16	 From  Spivaking 24/7 : Yes! you spoke what I think

11:46:28	 From  Milli Network   to   Avehi(Privately) : And continue?

11:47:02	 From  Milli Network   to   Avehi(Privately) : You take a call.

11:47:24	 From  Spivaking 24/7 : so make the government employ more people

11:47:40	 From  Nirmala Menon : Thank u so much to all panelists

11:47:49	 From  Milli Network   to   Avehi(Privately) : We can take a 2-3 minute break

11:47:55	 From  dhanashree thorat : Thanks all!

11:48:26	 From  Avehi   to   Milli Network(Privately) : would we take a 2 min break

11:49:09	 From  Milli Network   to   Avehi(Privately) : Yes

11:50:05	 From  Spivaking 24/7 : have a question about oral records

11:50:09	 From  Aparna Vaidik : Please raise a hand if you wish to ask a question.

11:51:05	 From  Malini Krishnankutty : Can panelists be asked to respond to questions in the chat? would be nice to get some answers if possible...

11:51:48	 From  Avehi   to   Milli Network(Privately) : okay great

11:51:58	 From  Aparna Vaidik : The ones tech-savvy enough shall do it :)

11:52:22	 From  Avehi   to   Milli Network(Privately) : are there any questions

11:52:26	 From  Avehi   to   Milli Network(Privately) : on OH

11:53:48	 From  Milli Network   to   Avehi(Privately) : We are asking people to raise hands if they have questions. A user called Spivaking has a question.

11:54:42	 From  Milli Network   to   Aparna Vaidik(Privately) : Can we say that people can also leave questions here?

11:55:10	 From  Aparna Vaidik   to   Milli Network(Privately) : yes

11:55:17	 From  Aparna Vaidik   to   Milli Network(Privately) : Deepika is collecting the question

11:55:57	 From  Milli Network   to   Aparna Vaidik(Privately) : Ok, Avehi just sent me a private message about this. Maybe keep sending her questions as they come in? 

11:56:18	 From  Aparna Vaidik   to   Milli Network(Privately) : yes. We are doing that on a google doc for past hour. Deepika is now the back up.

11:56:27	 From  Milli Network   to   Aparna Vaidik(Privately) : Ok, thanks. 

11:56:53	 From  deepikas   to   Milli Network(Privately) : Hey Hari, this is just to let you know that I’m around as backup mod.

11:57:22	 From  Milli Network   to   deepikas(Privately) : Ok, thanks. 

11:57:54	 From  Milli Network   to   deepikas(Privately) : This is OH related from earlier session: maybe you can include this: How does one negotiate individual research involving oral history and larger archival initiatives? As in, if I am conducting interviews as part of my individual research, at what stage, and in what form, can it become part of an institutionalized archive? What are the parameters ?



11:58:43	 From  deepikas   to   Milli Network(Privately) : Thanks, it’s on the list :)

11:58:49	 From  Venkat Srinivasan   to   Milli Network(Privately) : Can you make deepikas as co-host? (Deepika, IISc). Not the other Deepika (Deepika Sharma).

12:00:33	 From  Milli Network   to   Venkat Srinivasan(Privately) : Ah ok. Sorry. 

12:01:18	 From  yamaha : @roland The Internet Archive is an excellent resource for born digital content and often permissive in their sharing policies. How can brick-and-mortar archives like yours leverage the infrastructure like that of The Internet Archives? Institutes like the IITs and NCBS have tonnes of internal repositories that have software developed which could have archival value. On a similar note, a good portion of student campus lives Indian universities since the late nineties have been  documented on campus networks and mailing list. It's not exactly oral history in the traditional sense but born digital and of equal distinction.

12:04:01	 From  Milli Network   to   Avehi(Privately) : Sritama (Spivaking) has had her hand up for a while now. 

12:05:47	 From  Milli Network   to   deepikas(Privately) : Thanks. Sorry, I think I added the wrong Deepika as co-host earlier. 

12:06:11	 From  Malini Krishnankutty : Yesterday there was a comment that you need to wait 8 years before material from someone who passes away can become part of an archive from the time the person passes away.. I don't know if I understood correctly. Is this true of oral histories as well?

12:07:54	 From  Bharat S   to   Milli Network(Privately) : How do I raise my hand to ask a question?

12:09:02	 From  Milli Network   to   Bharat S(Privately) : You will see an icon next to your name in the participant list. Tell me if you see it. Or it might be in the More option.

12:09:56	 From  Bharat S   to   Milli Network(Privately) : I don't see it. I have Unmute, Rename and Edit Profile Picture

12:09:59	 From  Milli Network   to   Avehi(Privately) : Padmini has her hand up. But you take a call on whether you want to take some chat questions first. 

12:10:05	 From  Bharat S   to   Milli Network(Privately) : Oh wait I see it. Nvm

12:10:29	 From  Sritama : thank you, that’s helpful !

12:10:39	 From  Milli Network   to   Bharat S(Privately) : Found it? 

12:11:34	 From  Bharat S   to   Milli Network(Privately) : Yup! thanks

12:12:15	 From  Milli Network   to   Avehi(Privately) : Bharat has his hand raised. 

12:14:57	 From  Avehi   to   Milli Network(Privately) : will go to him next and then FB question

12:15:58	 From  Milli Network   to   Avehi(Privately) : Ok. there are also a few chat questions. have you got them from Deepika?

12:20:24	 From  dhanashree thorat : Q for Nandini: I know activist archives are often concerned about government/police surveillance and how archival material can be misused against activists. Has this been a concern for the archival projects you have been involved in?

12:23:49	 From  Nandini Oza : Yes Dhanashree, we encounter this many many times

12:30:10	 From  Avehi   to   Milli Network(Privately) : how long is this session?

12:30:45	 From  Milli Network   to   Avehi(Privately) : It's scheduled to go on till 1:30. 

12:32:57	 From  bhanu : re. app for OH https://storycorps.org/

12:33:23	 From  Milli Network : App for short-form oral histories linked to pictures: https://www.pixstori.com/ 

12:35:15	 From  Milli Network   to   Avehi(Privately) : Suggestion: you could also ask other participants to chip in, if they have views/relevant experience related to a question.

12:37:30	 From  Avehi   to   Milli Network(Privately) : do we have any more questions? or would someone like to share their OH engagement?

12:38:52	 From  Milli Network   to   Avehi(Privately) : Another question: Yesterday there was a comment that you need to wait 8 years before material from someone who passes away can become part of an archive from the time the person passes away.. I don't know if I understood correctly. Is this true of oral histories as well?



12:40:32	 From  Milli Network   to   Avehi(Privately) : There might be people who are interested in starting oral history work - maybe some questions related to that - books to refer to, OH collections to look at, is there training for OH in India?

12:41:05	 From  Avehi   to   Milli Network(Privately) : thank you -sorry  I’m drawing a blank

12:43:52	 From  Milli Network : Indira Chowdhury mentioned this OH collection:

12:44:00	 From  Milli Network : https://bancroft.berkeley.edu/ROHO/collections/subjectarea/index.html

12:44:47	 From  Milli Network   to   Bharat S(Privately) : Do you have another question? 

12:45:26	 From  Bharat S   to   Milli Network(Privately) : Yeah, a comment actually, if I may. I promise to keep it brief :)

12:46:04	 From  Milli Network   to   Avehi(Privately) : Bharat wants to make a brief comment

12:47:40	 From  Indira : Heather mentioned this:

12:47:42	 From  Indira : https://storiesofstrength.com.au/seventy-years-in-australia/

12:49:30	 From  Venkat Srinivasan : Apologies for the terrible Internet connection. Hope this is what Avehi asked. The Archives at NCBS (http://archives.ncbs.res.in/) is a very new space (in its physical 'built-up' form). The archive has conducted about 70 short interviews of people across the hierarchy within the institution. The catalog can be accessed through the archive website (http://catalogue.archives.ncbs.res.in/). It's a very small attempt for now, but it's a direction we'd like to take it going forward. We're also now training students to the best of our abilities, both in getting them to do a critical hearing+summarize interviews and to also conduct interviews. The other thing we really want to do is build a space where you can see connections between these different forms of history: orality, a physical object, and the textual record. So, in some of the exhibitions created on the Archives website, you'll see some attempts at making these connections (http://stories.archives.ncbs.res.in/exhibit/13ways/).

12:50:05	 From  dhanashree thorat : Thank you for your answer!!

12:50:12	 From  Heather Goodall : And here is the home page of Stories of Strength: https://storiesofstrength.com.au/

12:51:06	 From  Venkat Srinivasan : The Stories - 13 Ways - referred to up here was created with the help of Janastu, https://janastu.org/ (they will be speaking on June 13).

12:52:02	 From  AR : follow up question to nandini:  how do these concerns of surveillance and police/court oversight factor in when you are planning how/where to store and make the oral history archive accessible? 

12:52:31	 From  Milli Network   to   Avehi(Privately) : Venkat's message (which he has already posted to everyone in the chat box): Apologies for the terrible Internet connection. Hope this is what Avehi asked. The Archives at NCBS (http://archives.ncbs.res.in/) is a very new space (in its physical 'built-up' form). The archive has conducted about 70 short interviews of people across the hierarchy within the institution. The catalog can be accessed through the archive website (http://catalogue.archives.ncbs.res.in/). It's a very small attempt for now, but it's a direction we'd like to take it going forward. We're also now training students to the best of our abilities, both in getting them to do a critical hearing+summarize interviews and to also conduct interviews. The other thing we really want to do is build a space where you can see connections between these different forms of history: orality, a physical object, and the textual record. So, in some of the exhibitions created on the Archives website, you'll see some attempts at making these connections (http://

12:54:51	 From  Nandini Oza : Answer to AR, I would like this question to be answered by Heather and Indira as that will be a learning for me too. 

12:55:04	 From  Titas Bose : followup question to Indira: While the narrator- researcher negotiation you spoke about with response to interview publication, can be an individualistic experience, in many cases, it is a structural erasure. How do you as a researcher check your power relation with your narrator, for a more accurate and ethical representation of their voice?

12:56:11	 From  Padmini Ray Murray : For those of you interested in protest archives, risks and threats: we will definitely be touching upon this in the panel at times of crises that I will be moderating on the 12th - Francesca Recchia from The Polis Project in particular, will be speaking to these concerns 

12:59:43	 From  Milli Network   to   Avehi(Privately) : If you need more questions: How do oral historians judge evidence from interviews, given the fallibility of memory?

13:00:18	 From  Milli Network : The Boston Tapes, which Indira mentioned: https://www.bbc.com/news/uk-northern-ireland-27238797

13:00:46	 From  Nandini Oza : Thanks Indira and I agree with you fully. 

13:02:13	 From  Venkat Srinivasan : More coverage from 2014 on the IRA histories that Indira mentioned: https://www.chronicle.com/interactives/belfast

13:03:25	 From  MAYA DODD   to   Milli Network(Privately) : i disabled waiting room since we have capacity now!

13:03:32	 From  Aparna Vaidik : Have used this British Library’s ‘Listening Project’ in my classes:https://sounds.bl.uk/Oral-history/The-Listening-Project#

13:04:55	 From  Milli Network   to   MAYA DODD(Privately) : Thanks.

13:05:12	 From  Nandini Oza : Thanks Heather and Indira, you helped me in this question that has been before me for a long time. Always something to learn from you. Thanks again.



13:05:18	 From  MAYA DODD : Wow. Aparna, imagine if this got an Indian version..am thinking of http://www.cckonline.in/delhi-oralities-.html

13:05:32	 From  Aparna Vaidik : https://www.s-asian.cam.ac.uk/archive/audio/

13:06:13	 From  Aparna Vaidik : Maya, we unfortunately have nothing on this scale.

13:07:10	 From  Rahi Soren : These might be of interest

13:07:28	 From  Rahi Soren : http://granthsouthasia.in/



13:08:34	 From  Rahi Soren : http://bichitra.jdvu.ac.in/index.php

The Tagore Variorum.

13:08:34	 From  Titas Bose   to   Milli Network(Privately) : Can I request the organiser to collate these resources and email them to the attendees who registered. You know since the chat messages can't be archived?

13:09:13	 From  Heather Goodall : I have to leave now but I have really appreciated hearing such interesting talks and questions! Many thanks. Hope to see you all soon, Heather

13:09:53	 From  Milli Network : Thank you so much for participating in this Discussion, Heather!

13:10:25	 From  MAYA DODD : Thanks Heather!

13:12:21	 From  The IFA Archive team - Spandana : Sorry people, had to step away from the desk for a few minutes. I missed the discussion and the question that you wanted our input on.

13:12:30	 From  Milli Network : A podcast that Indira recommends, and which includes some oral history elements: https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b0738jc2

13:12:34	 From  Venkat Srinivasan : Some resources that we ask students to look at:

Alessandro Portelli – “Peculiarities of Oral History”. 1981

Alessandro Portelli – “What Makes Oral History Different”

Indira Chowdhury – “Speaking of the Past”

Katherine Borland – “That’s not what I said”

Michael Frisch - 'Shared Authority'. 

'Oral History in the Digital Age' on Michigan State University's website: http://ohda.matrix.msu.edu/

A personal favourite: https://conservancy.umn.edu/handle/11299/107358 - Interview with the inventor of the Curta calculator

Columbia’s Oral History Center: https://library.columbia.edu/locations/ccoh.html

UC Berkeley’s Oral History Center: http://www.lib.berkeley.edu/libraries/bancroft-library/oral-history-center/projects

Community histories: http://oralhistory.nypl.org/

13:12:38	 From  MAYA DODD : We will also be sharing a list of open adn digital collections on the milli.link page after this week is done

13:12:49	 From  Venkat Srinivasan : Speaking the world of the sciences (mostly): 

Science oral histories: https://www.aip.org/history-programs/niels-bohr-library/oral-histories

Extensive life histories in the sciences: https://sounds.bl.uk/Oral-history/Science/

Indian science oral histories: One example available in the open is the material at TIFR, thanks to the work of Indira Chowdhury. Log in to the TIFR Archives website and have a look at the oral history interview transcripts there.

13:13:03	 From  Shreya Malik : Hi, i have a question i am am working on songs of 1857, particularly in U.P

13:13:55	 From  MAYA DODD : Also Chinmay's list from yesterday was pretty awesome--not specific to oral history but juts sharing for folks who missed it yesterday https://sites.google.com/site/chinmaytumbe/home/history-links

13:14:04	 From  Milli Network   to   Avehi(Privately) : Message from IFA: Sorry people, had to step away from the desk for a few minutes. I missed the discussion and the question that you wanted our input on.



13:14:41	 From  MAYA DODD : And also some audio archives for music are also listed at https://southasianculture.wordpress.com/

13:15:30	 From  MAYA DODD : And as Shubha mentioned yesterday https://www.indiastudies.org/ethnomusicology/

13:15:44	 From  AR : There are also video interviews on various subjects, from people affected by coal mining projects to cultural practitioners, to be found at https://pad.ma/

13:16:06	 From  Milli Network   to   Avehi(Privately) : How do oral historians judge evidence from interviews, given the fallibility of memory?



13:17:04	 From  Titas Bose : any suggestions for public archives mapping systemic forms of violence/ exclusion on vulnerable children? especially in school?

13:17:43	 From  Aparna Vaidik : Please do not worry about copying all the links. I have collated everything will share a file at the end of the meeting

13:18:06	 From  Milli Network   to   Aparna Vaidik(Privately) : Thanks, Aparna. 

13:18:13	 From  MAYA DODD : Thanbks SPandana...http://www.thetravellingarchive.org/

13:18:21	 From  Nevin : Hi,

There's been a shortage or even no archival records on the Art forms in Kerala Syrian churches especially the Mural tradition. Any idea where I could look for some archival material on the same. Thanks in Advance

13:18:22	 From  Indira : @Shreya Malik Look for Ghadar ke Phool by Amritlal Nagar. English translation Gathering the Ashes.

13:19:04	 From  Shreya Malik : thankyou Indira mam :)

13:19:12	 From  MAYA DODD : Please see the week's schedule at https://www.eventbrite.com/e/international-archives-week-2020-june-8-14-milli-sessions-tickets-107681129156

13:21:15	 From  Venkat Srinivasan : A selection of the Oral History work on the NBA that Nandini Oza has done: https://oralhistorynarmada.in/

13:22:42	 From  MAYA DODD : Nevin..thanks for flagging this. In academia there are several people in the digital heritage sector who have been working on different projects --often a function of funding too! (Messaged you separately). 

13:24:14	 From  Milli Network : Nandini Oza will be talking more about her work on the Narmada Bachao Andolan in the Evidence & Truth session  on 11th June (10:30 am). 

13:24:58	 From  dhanashree thorat : Thanks all for this wonderful discussion! Avehi, I don't know how you've managed to facilitate the conversation and track questions....but appreciate you!

13:25:40	 From  Bharat S : I second that! This has been wonderful

13:25:55	 From  Avehi : Thank you, I’ve had a lot of help navigating from the Milli team :)

13:26:17	 From  Milli Network : An example Indira discussed in the context of reliability of memory (considered a classic in Oral History work): https://www.sunypress.edu/p-1002-the-death-of-luigi-trastulli-an.aspx

13:27:00	 From  Venkat Srinivasan : OHAI, the Oral History Association of India. 

13:28:19	 From  Venkat Srinivasan : Here is an issue of Varta (the OHAI newsletter) from 2019: https://ohaindia.files.wordpress.com/2020/04/varta-2_ohai-newsletter-2019.pdf

13:29:24	 From  Malini Krishnankutty : Please add online payment for membership of OHAI- write now you don't have that. 

13:29:39	 From  Malini Krishnankutty : right now you don't have that- I just checked the website

13:30:18	 From  Aparna Vaidik : Here is a doc with all the weblinks and readings shared since yesterday on the chats

13:31:23	 From  Venkat Srinivasan : Bracero Histories: http://braceroarchive.org/about

13:32:00	 From  Milli Network : Avehi Menon mentioned this as a nice example of a website that provides tools for people to conduct community oral histories on their own: http://braceroarchive.org/about

13:32:00	 From  Titas Bose : Last question: any suggestions for public archives mapping systemic forms of violence/ exclusion on vulnerable children? especially in school?



13:32:34	 From  Venkat Srinivasan : Malini and anyone else: Thanks for the interest, and we are working on it. Do bear with us! If you would like to be a member or be part of the community, drop an email to oralhistoryindia@gmail.com

13:32:36	 From  Malini Krishnankutty : lovely session! thanks

13:32:54	 From  Indira : Thanks everyone.

13:32:55	 From  Madhuri Ramesh : fantastic session, thanks everyone!

13:32:55	 From  Aparna Vaidik : Revised doc

13:33:15	 From  Malini Krishnankutty : @Venkat thanks

13:33:15	 From  Nandini Oza : Thank you for the session and Avehi.

13:33:24	 From  Riya khanna : thnks

13:33:31	 From  Debarati Chakraborty : Thank you so much
